this is gonna be a project for this year
hopefully I finish it this year
anyways there was just given this thing
last night and it's definitely gonna
need some restoration work as you can
see what it is is another old corn shot
got the cast iron one and the barn the
ghouls this one's as old maybe a little
bit newer than the Gold's the rules
dates to the late 1800s to the
turn-of-the-century
I forget exactly what she here it was
from the patent date but this one here I
can find no markings on whatsoever as of
yet I haven't really studied it that
hard yet but what I can see you probably
can't see it too well I can sorta see it
here in the screen I see bare wood here
in the middle of the stripe of green
right here and a stripe of green right
here I can definitely make out a little
bit of pinstriping on this I'm seeing
greens like right there I've seen some
lay off that's a blue well what color
that would have been it's so FEA it's
hard to tell if that's the color would
have been or if it's just a faded out
maybe faded out green I'm not exactly
sure it looks like it might have been
blue though and then down in here
there's traces of red I'm seeing again
some more traces of green going down the
handle it might even black same thing
here I'm seeing stripe of green going
down there straight for green going down
there it could have been black that's
getting bleached out by the Sun I'm not
exactly sure yet began and really
haven't studied that hard looks like
something was fastened right here not
exactly sure but all the internal pieces
all the cast iron pieces appear to be
intact in here I just have to replace
some wood might damaged wood and there
is enough pieces here where I should be
able to reproduce them all about too
much of a problem
see all the insides are here let me move
my light this here mounts to the top
this is where you feed the corn in
there's a little chute and what it does
is it rubs against these gears in here
and I'll show you how that works in a
second missing the front panel here
there would be a panel right here going
across like this and the corn would just
drop down to the bottom I think you'd be
a hole I don't think this whole gizmo
here is original it could be but I don't
think it is she I think there was a
panel right here and I believe that this
might have been added on later after
that panel fell out y:real appears to be
in good shape just a little rusty
nothing I can't fix let me move my light
what we got going on here this cage
looking thing I'll show you how that
works in just a second come around to
this side okay here's the gears that
operate from the hand crank what it does
is it transistor thing right here when
the corn goes down that chute right
there it rubs against this thing here
which pulls the kernels off the cob
these things here cause it's the cause
of cob to rotate against that as they're
pulling the kernels off when all the
kernels get removed this is has a spring
in it which pushes it against that and
pulls it down in as it's spinning and as
the crowns get pulled off the cob the
cob will drop down into that cage
looking thing right there I'm shining my
light and the bare cob will pop out this
hole here so the kernels have dropped
down at the bottom underneath into a
bucket and then these will just the cob
will pop out this side and they'll pile
or something so they're a pretty
efficient machine and they help farmers
drastically increase their speed of
shell and korn instead of doing it by
hand it's a really old fashioned way
you'd use this machine and it would
really speed up their production
so I believe this will turn into a nice
restoration project I mean there's not
here to work with it is pretty rough but
I think I can say that makes something
nice out of it
so if anyone out there can help me
identify who made it so far
my only guess the only thing I've seen
close to this yet is made by sandwich
manufacturing company but I have no way
to confirm that so if anyone out there
can tell me for sure what this thing is
let me know